# Visualization-and-Analysis-of-Depressed-Users-using-Social-Network-Analysis-Tool
The exponential increase in the number of social media users is quite pronounced over the past  few years. As of 2021, there are at least 4.48 billion users across a plethora of social sites. There  are various platforms that have provided the most effective and easiest means of communication.  However, with the rise in the usage of social media, there arise consequences of various excited,  frenetic, anxious, or even suicidal behaviours. Through the application of Social Network Analysis  – a subdomain of Data Analytics that deals with social structures as graphs – the behaviours of  users can be brought under analysis after visualizing them as nodes and edges. Analysis of these  users can be done by utilizing the concepts of graph theory. This project uses a visualization tool  call Gephi to implement this idea. Real time Twitter data is imported into Gephi, using a Twitter  API obtained through a Twitter Developer account, to perform analysis on the users, while  applying concepts like modularity, centrality measures etc., along with few algorithms and layouts that are inherently a part of this tool. This implementation can reveal key components, inter-dependencies, and importance of entities in respect to other nodes, enabling us to better understand the mental behaviours in our networks. It can be a helpful analytical tool that can be embedded  into social media platforms to detect depression, with an extended idea of identifying influencers  and dangerous users, if any, in the process.
